.TH "smtp-gated" 1 "2013-02-26" "Bartlomiej Korupczynski"


.SH NAME

.P
\fBsmtp\-gated\fR \- transparently block viruses during SMTP connections

.SH VERSION

.P
This manual describes smtp\-gated v. 1.4.21

.SH SYNOPSIS

.P
\fBsmtp\-gated\fR [\-f] [ \-h | \-s | \-S | \-r | \-t | \-T | \-v | \-V ] config_file

.SH DESCRIPTION

.P
\fBsmtp\-gated\fR checks SMTP traffic and blocks any viruses found.
It can also spam\-check messages. E\-mail containing virus is blocked
(SMTP\-server session is brought down), and a proper message is sent
to client software. E\-mails found to be a SPAM, can also be blocked,
or just the fact is logged.

.P
\fBsmtp\-gated\fR uses netfilter framework to forward connections to destination
MTA. It's meant to be transparent, so any SMTP\-authentication works ok.
Also pipelining extension is supported.

.P
Daemonised scanning engines support is integrated, so there is minimal
performance hit on scanning.

.SH CONFIGURATION

.P
Configuration is done with config_file. There is no default path for it.
If you would like to create configuration template, see \fB\-t\fR option:

.RS
smtp\-gated \-t | sed \-e 's/^[a\-z]/;&/' >/etc/smtp\-gated.conf
.RE

.P
To make upgrades easier, be sure not to uncomment unneccesary options.

.SH OPTIONS

.P
Options marked with \fICONFIG\fR require config file on command line. For others,
no config file means default configuration.

.TP
\fB\-C name\fR [CONFIG]
show value for configuration variable "name"
.TP
\fB\-f\fR
run foreground, use for debugging
.TP
\fB\-h\fR
command reference
.TP
\fB\-K\fR [CONFIG]
kill running process (TERM in SIGNALS)
.TP
\fB\-s\fR [CONFIG]
prepare & show process status (USR1 in SIGNALS)
.TP
\fB\-S\fR [CONFIG]
prepare & show process status file name
.TP
\fB\-r\fR [CONFIG]
reload configuration (HUP in SIGNALS)
.TP
\fB\-t\fR
syntax check & dump configuration (except messages)
.TP
\fB\-T\fR [CONFIG]
syntax check & dump configuration (including messages)
.TP
\fB\-v\fR
show version
.TP
\fB\-V\fR
show version & compiled\-in options
.TP
\fBconfig_file\fR
required for most commands, except \fB\-t\fR and \fB\-T\fR.

.SH SIGNALS

.TP
\fBHUP\fR
reload configuration
.TP
\fBUSR1\fR
dump statistics (see \-s in OPTIONS)
.TP
\fBTERM\fR
close server socket and wait for existing sessions to finish.
.TP
\fBQUIT\fR
same as above

.SH RELAYING

.P
Listening port MUST be protected from world\-access or proxy will
act as open\-relay. This can be achieved either by setting bind_address
to internal IP, or by denying listen\-port access from outside world
using iptables.

.SH STATUS

.P
You can request status dump, by using \fIsmtp\-gated \-s config_file\fR or by
sending SIGUSR1 to daemon process. This will write status to the \fIstatusfile\fR.

.P
It will contain the following (may change in further versions):

.TP
\fBStart time: Thu Mar 3 17:06:21 2005\fR
daemon start time
.TP
\fBRestart time: Tue Mar 15 14:34:41 2005\fR
daemon last SIGHUP time
.TP
\fBUptime: 11d 21h 28m 22s\fR
time since 'Start time'
.TP
\fBFound: 43/0 (viruses/spam)\fR
number of [viruses/spam] found so far; this *does not count* any virus/spam avoided with client\-lock (see: Rejects: lock)
.TP
\fBChildren: 1/18 (current/max)\fR
current/maximum number of user sessions
.TP
\fBRequests: 25238/113/7506 (total/direct/empty)\fR
total number of sessions/direct (=TLS) sessions/empty sessions (=without transaction).
.TP
\fBRejects: 0/458/10421/0 (host/ident/lock/other)\fR
Rejected requests; because of per\-host\-limit/per\-ident\-limit/client\-locked/other reason.

.P
Next, current running sessions:

.TP
\fBslot\fR
internal connection table client slot
.TP
\fBpid\fR
serving process ID
.TP
\fBstate\fR
SMTP session state
.TP
\fBflags\fR
session flags:

.RS
AUTH: a=supported, A=accepted
.RE

.TP
\fBtime\fR
session running time
.TP
\fBsource\fR
source (client) IP
.TP
\fBtarget\fR
destination (server/MTA) IP
.TP
\fBtrns\fR
number of current transaction
.TP
\fBcli_rx\fR
client\-received byte count
.TP
\fBsrv_rx\fR
server\-received byte count
.TP
\fBkbps\fR
average speed (since connection started) in kbits/second
.TP
\fBident\fR
client ident*

.SH SEE ALSO

.P
smtp\-gated.conf(5)

.SH BUGS

.P
See http://smtp\-proxy.klolik.org/#bugs for details.

.SH HOMEPAGE

.P
http://smtp\-proxy.klolik.org

.SH AUTHOR

.P
Bartlomiej Korupczynski <smtp\-proxy@klolik.org>

.\" man code generated by txt2tags 2.6 (http://txt2tags.org)
.\" cmdline: txt2tags -t man -i smtp-gated.t2t -o smtp-gated.8
